---
date: Thu Mar 31 2022 20:29:14 -0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
qualitative_time: 
title: A kitchen without "finally" blocks
previous_teaser: Why you can never buy one spatulum on its own
previous_first: false
---

"Write one where you compare cooking and programming."

You're in charge of breakfast.
But your mission is not to make a plate of scrambled eggs, you're teaching a worker to do it.
You write down some instructions for the worker.

Here's an excerpt:

1. Get a bowl
2. Go to the fridge
3. Open the fridge
4. Get 4 eggs from the egg carton
5. Put the 4 eggs in the bowl
6. Close the fridge
7. Go to the counter

The instructions are pretty detailed; it just has to be this way for this worker.
It's not that he's stupid--people say he's smarter than you--he's just not an expert at working in a kitchen.

On the day of the breakfast, the worker starts to carry out these steps.
He gets a bowl.
He goes to the fridge.
He opens the fridge.

Unfortunately, you only have 3 eggs left that morning.

The good thing is that this worker isn't clueless.
Although it wasn't explicitly covered in your instructions, he understands this situation.
He knows he can't make the scrambled eggs you described if there aren't at least 4 eggs.

Actually, he can understand a lot of weird cases, like if there were no eggs at all.
Or not even an empty egg carton.
Heck, he's ready for situations you hadn't thought of, like if the whole fridge were missing.
If somebody accidentally stocked plates where the bowls should have been, he'd understand that too.

Anyway, he knows that in a case like this, he should instead report back to you.
So he texts you, leaves, and spends the rest of his day doing other work that he has to do.
That was the good thing.

The bad thing is the fridge stays open.
